README.md, before:

## Ruan Odendaal
#### Eat. Think. Build. Repeat

A Software Engineering graduate with experience as a Product Manager and Business Analyst pivoting to software development. Highly inquisitive and passionate about solving real problems. Experienced in being a servant leader to Lean and Agile teams.

Looking for Full Stack development roles in an organisation where I can continue to learn and be challenged every day.

[Projects](#projects) | [Experience](#experience) | [Education](#education) | [Interests](#interests) |

## Skills

#### This Skill

Descriptive paragraph of how capable you are at this skill and, if relevant, how it has developed.

- Experience
- Achievements
- Evidence

#### Languages

- English 	(Fluent)
- Afrikaans	(Fluent)
- Dutch 		(Conversational)
- German 	(Conversational, could use a refresh)

## Projects
Project title  | Description | Technologies | Testing
------------- | ------------------------------	| :-------------: | :-------------: |
[our-wedding-site](https://github.com/ruanodendaal/our-wedding-site) |  A site I created for my wedding using a paid for theme. Which I then customised for my needs. | JavaScript, HTML, CSS, PHP |
[student-directory](https://github.com/ruanodendaal/student-directory) | The student directory script allows you to manage the list of students enrolled at Villains Academy. Week 3 of the pre-course | Ruby |


## Experience

**HSBC BANK Ltd** &nbsp;(JUN 2016 - DEC 2016)

*Digital Product Manager (Contract)*

Rethinking the way HSBC communicates with its retail & wealth customers (RBWM – Retail Banking & Wealth Management). Responsible for building new technical capabilities and enabling cost savings.

- Drove redesign of paperless statement adoption messaging which increased adoption by 400% ~$140k of additional cost saves.
- Worked with stakeholders to build vision for future global Customer Correspondence.
- Designed new experience for customers who are in arrears to self-serve so that they can repay their debt. Defined MVP, created roadmap of delivery and working with cross-functional team.

<br>
**FINANCIAL TIMES (Media publisher)** &nbsp;(JUN 2015 – JUN 2016)

*Product Manager - Membership & E-Commerce (Contract)*

Responsible for delivering exponential improvements to Subscription management and CRM platforms (Salesforce & Zuora).

- 82% reduction in system errors for subscription transitions, renewals and cancellations (in 4 months).
- Lead initiative that removed an 8hr restriction on subscription transitions & cancellations, enabling Customer Services to utilise an additional 8hrs a day.
- Improving Customer Service workflows and case management - 26hr per week saved (3hr 20min saving per user per week).
- 20% increase in retention; working with Customer Service heads on improving customer satisfaction (CSAT) scores.

<br>
**FEB DIGITAL Ltd. (consulting startup)** &nbsp;(JAN 2015 – APR 2015)

*Product Development Consultant*

- Working with CXO & Director level clients to help define their digital strategy.
- Working with Digital departments to drive forward innovation of their product portfolios across web, mobile web, smartphone and tablet (iOS & Android) apps.
- Driving lean product development, helping clients to build, measure and learn from minimal viable products.

<br>
**NEWS UK Ltd** &nbsp;(APR 2011 – DEC 2014)

Part of the global Media company News Corporation. The Times, The Sunday Times and The Sun publishing brands. Held multiple roles during my time.

- *Digital Delivery Manager/Product Owner – Technology* &nbsp;(DEC 2013 – DEC 2014)
- *Product Owner – Driving.co.uk (car classifieds)*  &nbsp;(OCT 2012 - DEC 2013)
- *Digital Business Analyst – Technology* &nbsp;(APR 2011 - OCT 2012)

Few key highlights:

- Direct line management responsibility for a team of 5 perm staff plus 5 contract staff  for discrete projects.
- Lead cross functional teams to launch:
 - Sun Goals iOS & Android apps (News & Video product)
 - Sun Mobile Android app (News product)
 - Sun Favourite (favourite.thesun.co.uk Sport tipping website)  
- Worked with Design & UX to launch a better onboarding process for new subscribers which increased mobile subscriber acquisition by 20%.
- Lead the development of a new interactive Tablet Advertising solution to enable a £17m Commercial Advertising KPI.
- Delivered a MVP HTML5 mobile web product, increased mobile conversion x5.
- Improved Desktop site design with UX Design team which lead to a 1.5x increase in conversion and increased the monthly lead revenue by 62%.
- Improved average page visits from 1.9 to 3.4 and dwell time from 1:50 to 4:10 which increased advertising revenue.
- Using analytics to translate consumer behaviour from Adobe SiteCatalyst (Omniture) into product developments.


## Education

#### Makers Academy &nbsp;(Feb 2017 to Jun 2017)

- Curiosity and hungry passion for code
- Independent learner and problem-solver
- OOP, TDD, SOLID, MVC, DDD
- Software Craftsmanship
- Ruby, Rails, Javascript, Node.js, Angular.js, React.js
- Rspec, Jasmine, Mocha

#### Professional qualifications
- Certified Scrum Master (CSM) &nbsp;(Nov 2015 - Scrum Alliance, Inc.)
- Agile Project Management (APMG) &nbsp;(Feb 2014 - APMG-UK)
- Certified Scrum Product Owner (CPO) &nbsp;(Nov 2012 - Scrum Alliance, Inc.)
- BCS/ISEB Requirements Engineering &nbsp;(Aug 2012)
- BCS/ISEB Modelling Business Process &nbsp;(Jun 2012)
- Essential Agile for Business Analysts &nbsp;(Nov 2011)
- BCS/ISEB Business Analysis Essentials &nbsp;(Sep 2011)
- Certified NLP Master Practitioner & Coach	&nbsp;(Mar 2011 - Self funded)
- Certified NLP Practitioner & Coach &nbsp;(Oct 2009 - Self funded)
- Lean Six Sigma Green Belt trained &nbsp;(Dec 2008)

#### University of the West of England, Bristol   (2002 to 2006)

BSc Software Engineering
- President of the Basketball team (2004 - 2006)


## Interests
- Tech Meetups
- Golf
- Travelling

Commit message:

Updated cv with skills info

README.md, after:

## Ruan Odendaal
#### Eat. Think. Build. Repeat

I am a Software Engineering graduate with 7 years experience in Technology as a Product Manager and Business Analyst. Highly inquisitive and passionate about solving real customer problems.

Looking for Full Stack development roles in an organisation where I can continue to learn and be challenged every day.

[Projects](#projects) | [Experience](#experience) | [Education](#education) | [Interests](#interests) |

### Why should we hire you?

#### Agile thinking

As a certified CPO (Certified Scrum Product Owner) & CSM (Certified Scrum Master), I have a wealth of experience working in and implementing Agile.

- Experienced in Scrum, Kanban, Lean
- Increasing team velocity or throughput
- Being a servant leader or integrated team member

#### Adaptability & fast learner

I am a hugely adaptable person. Whether it be within my previous role as a Product Manager switching focus from UX, analytics, technology and strategy. Or getting thrown in the deep end with new clients and having to get up to speed and demonstrate value very quickly.

#### Spoken Languages

- English 	(Fluent)
- Afrikaans	(Fluent)
- Dutch 		(Conversational)
- German 	(Conversational, could use a refresh)

## Projects
Project title  | Description | Technologies | Testing
------------- | ------------------------------	| :-------------: | :-------------: |
[our-wedding-site](https://github.com/ruanodendaal/our-wedding-site) |  A site I created for my wedding using a paid for theme. Which I then customised for my needs. | JavaScript, HTML, CSS, PHP |
[student-directory](https://github.com/ruanodendaal/student-directory) | The student directory script allows you to manage the list of students enrolled at Villains Academy. Week 3 of the pre-course | Ruby |


## Experience

**HSBC BANK Ltd** &nbsp;(JUN 2016 - DEC 2016)

*Digital Product Manager (Contract)*

Rethinking the way HSBC communicates with its retail & wealth customers (RBWM – Retail Banking & Wealth Management). Responsible for building new technical capabilities and enabling cost savings.

- Drove redesign of paperless statement adoption messaging which increased adoption by 400% ~$140k of additional cost saves.
- Worked with stakeholders to build vision for future global Customer Correspondence.
- Designed new experience for customers who are in arrears to self-serve so that they can repay their debt. Defined MVP, created roadmap of delivery and working with cross-functional team.

<br>
**FINANCIAL TIMES (Media publisher)** &nbsp;(JUN 2015 – JUN 2016)

*Product Manager - Membership & E-Commerce (Contract)*

Responsible for delivering exponential improvements to Subscription management and CRM platforms (Salesforce & Zuora).

- 82% reduction in system errors for subscription transitions, renewals and cancellations (in 4 months).
- Lead initiative that removed an 8hr restriction on subscription transitions & cancellations, enabling Customer Services to utilise an additional 8hrs a day.
- Improving Customer Service workflows and case management - 26hr per week saved (3hr 20min saving per user per week).
- 20% increase in retention; working with Customer Service heads on improving customer satisfaction (CSAT) scores.

<br>
**FEB DIGITAL Ltd. (consulting startup)** &nbsp;(JAN 2015 – APR 2015)

*Product Development Consultant*

- Working with CXO & Director level clients to help define their digital strategy.
- Working with Digital departments to drive forward innovation of their product portfolios across web, mobile web, smartphone and tablet (iOS & Android) apps.
- Driving lean product development, helping clients to build, measure and learn from minimal viable products.

<br>
**NEWS UK Ltd** &nbsp;(APR 2011 – DEC 2014)

Part of the global Media company News Corporation. The Times, The Sunday Times and The Sun publishing brands. Held multiple roles during my time.

- *Digital Delivery Manager/Product Owner – Technology* &nbsp;(DEC 2013 – DEC 2014)
- *Product Owner – Driving.co.uk (car classifieds)*  &nbsp;(OCT 2012 - DEC 2013)
- *Digital Business Analyst – Technology* &nbsp;(APR 2011 - OCT 2012)

Few key highlights:

- Direct line management responsibility for a team of 5 perm staff plus 5 contract staff  for discrete projects.
- Lead cross functional teams to launch:
 - Sun Goals iOS & Android apps (News & Video product)
 - Sun Mobile Android app (News product)
 - Sun Favourite (favourite.thesun.co.uk Sport tipping website)  
- Worked with Design & UX to launch a better onboarding process for new subscribers which increased mobile subscriber acquisition by 20%.
- Lead the development of a new interactive Tablet Advertising solution to enable a £17m Commercial Advertising KPI.
- Delivered a MVP HTML5 mobile web product, increased mobile conversion x5.
- Improved Desktop site design with UX Design team which lead to a 1.5x increase in conversion and increased the monthly lead revenue by 62%.
- Improved average page visits from 1.9 to 3.4 and dwell time from 1:50 to 4:10 which increased advertising revenue.
- Using analytics to translate consumer behaviour from Adobe SiteCatalyst (Omniture) into product developments.


## Education

#### Makers Academy &nbsp;(Feb 2017 to Jun 2017)
<!-- TODO -->
<!-- REVIEW -->
------------------DRAFT------------------
- Curiosity and hungry passion for code
- Independent learner and problem-solver
- OOP, TDD, SOLID, MVC, DDD
- Software Craftsmanship
- Ruby, Rails, Javascript, Node.js, Angular.js, React.js
- Rspec, Jasmine, Mocha

------------------DRAFT------------------


#### Professional qualifications
- Certified Scrum Master (CSM) &nbsp;(Nov 2015 - Scrum Alliance, Inc.)
- Agile Project Management (APMG) &nbsp;(Feb 2014 - APMG-UK)
- Certified Scrum Product Owner (CPO) &nbsp;(Nov 2012 - Scrum Alliance, Inc.)
- BCS/ISEB Requirements Engineering &nbsp;(Aug 2012)
- BCS/ISEB Modelling Business Process &nbsp;(Jun 2012)
- Essential Agile for Business Analysts &nbsp;(Nov 2011)
- BCS/ISEB Business Analysis Essentials &nbsp;(Sep 2011)
- Certified NLP Master Practitioner & Coach	&nbsp;(Mar 2011 - Self funded)
- Certified NLP Practitioner & Coach &nbsp;(Oct 2009 - Self funded)
- Lean Six Sigma Green Belt trained &nbsp;(Dec 2008)

#### University of the West of England, Bristol   (2002 to 2006)

BSc Software Engineering
- President of the Basketball team (2004 - 2006)


## Interests
- Tech Meetups
- Golf
- Travelling
